= address_standardization

== Summary

A tiny Ruby library to quickly standardize a postal address. Right now this supports Google Maps and MelissaData.

== Installation

Put this in your environment.rb:

  config.gem 'mcmire-address_standardization', :lib => "address_standardization", :source => "http://gems.github.com"

Then run <tt>rake gems:install</tt> to install the gem.

== Usage

Right now there are two methods supported: MelissaData and Google Maps.

MelissaData provides two services: {US address lookup}[http://www.melissadata.com/lookups/AddressVerify.asp] and {Canadian address lookup}[http://www.melissadata.com/lookups/CanadianAddressVerify.asp]. They both work the same way, however. First, here's how to standardize a US address:

  addr = AddressStandardization::MelissaData::USAddress.standardize(
    :street => "1 Infinite Loop",
    :city => "Cupertino",
    :state => "CA"
  )
  
This submits the address to MelissaData. If the address can't be found, you'll get back +nil+. But if the address can be found (as in this case), you'll get an instance of <tt>AddressStandardization::MelissaData::USAddress</tt>. If you store the instance, you can refer to the individual fields like so:

  addr.street  #=> "1 INFINITE LOOP"
  addr.city    #=> "CUPERTINO"
  addr.state   #=> "CA"
  addr.zip     #=> "95014-2083"

And standardizing a Canadian address:

  addr = AddressStandardization::MelissaData::CanadianAddress.standardize(
    :street => "103 Metig St",
    :city => "Sault Ste Marie",
    :province => "ON"
  )
  addr.street      #=> "103 METIG ST RR 4"
  addr.city        #=> "SAULT STE MARIE"
  addr.province    #=> "ON"
  addr.postalcode  #=> "P6A 5K9"

Using Google Maps to validate an address is just as easy:

  addr = AddressStandardization::GoogleMaps::Address.standardize(
    :street => "1600 Amphitheatre Parkway",
    :city => "Mountain View",
    :state => "CA"
  )
  addr.street     #=> "1600 AMPHITHEATRE PKWY"
  addr.city       #=> "MOUNTAIN VIEW"
  addr.state      #=> "CA"
  addr.zip        #=> "94043"
  addr.country    #=> "USA"
  
And, again, a Canadian address:

  addr = AddressStandardization::GoogleMaps::Address.standardize(
    :street => "1770 Stenson Blvd.",
    :city => "Peterborough",
    :province => "ON"
  )
  addr.street      #=> "1770 STENSON BLVD"
  addr.city        #=> "PETERBOROUGH"
  addr.province    #=> "ON"
  addr.postalcode  #=> "K9K"
  addr.country     #=> "CANADA"

You'll notice that for some reason, the Google Maps API doesn't return the full postal code for Canadian addresses. If you know why this is please let me know (my email address is below).

== Author

(c) 2008 Elliot Winkler (elliot dot winkler at gmail dot com). Released under the MIT license.